So what do we see here?
On the horizontal
axis, we have price.
On the vertical axis, we
have demand in units.
In addition to the points
that you were seeing earlier,
we also see a straight line.
That's your regression line.
That's basically capturing how
price is impacting demand.
In particular if you notice,
the coefficient in
front of price is
minus 0.9, what
does that tell you?
As price goes up by one dollar,
sales is expected to
come down by 0.9 units.
The fact that it's negative
makes a lot of sense why?
As price goes up,
sales is expected to come down.
What else do we see here?
What the regression
line is predicting as
well is pretty much if
you price it at zero,
close to free, about
10 units will be sold.
So that's what we get
doing the regression line.
What else do we see? We also
see something called an R-square.
That's a number that's
from zero to one.
It captures basically how
good is your regression.
The closer that number is to one,
the regression is
doing a good job of
capturing how demand is
changing with price.
The closer that number is zero,
unfortunately, the regression is
not doing a very good job.
What do we see here?
R-square is quite high.
It's about 89 percent.
That's a very high R-square.
Typical R-squares, 70 to
80 percent, that's
reasonably high.
What we can do from
here is now that we are
convinced that the regression is
doing a good job of understanding
how demand is varying with price,
we can start using this
regression to make predictions.
That's what we're after.
What we're after is,
how do we make demand
predictions at different prices?
That's what we will do next.
So for doing that,
we can take multiple steps.
We start out by looking
at the regression line,
which is what we
had shown earlier,
and start inserting
different prices.
We can first take the prices
that are already in our dataset,
and compare how our predicted
regression line or making
predictions from the regression
is comparing with actual data.
That's what is shown first.
What we see here
is actual data and
the predicted regression line
are quite close to each other.
It's not surprising, the R-square
of the regression remember,
which measures how good
that regression
is, is quite high.
What we can also do is
to go one step further,
and that's the power
of regression.
We can also start looking at
demand predictions at prices
that were not there
in the dataset,
and that's what I do next.
Look at the prices
on the top right.
When you look at those prices,
these are prices that are
not there in the dataset.
These are future prices.
This is when a manager can start
thinking about how
to use regression,
make predictions of demand for
prices that he has
not tested as yet.
What we see here is that
regression can make
predictions for demand
at those prices as well.
So that's the beauty
of regression.
Looking at some data,
we can start understanding how
quantitatively demand
relates to prices.
Look at the fit of the
regression, that's to R-square.
Once you convinced that
the regression is
doing a good job,
you can start using
that regression
to make demand predictions.
Once you can make
demand predictions,
optimal prices are
just one step away,
and the intuition
is the following.
If you can make predictions
at different prices,
we can start looking
at the revenue
and profit at those
different prices.
Once you can do that,
you can then start
understanding what
price should be charged
to make the maximum revenue or
maximum profit if you know
your underlying costs.
So the beauty of regression is,
we start from overall data.
We start quantifying the
relationship between variables.
Once we have that,
we start looking at how to
make demand predictions.
Next, you can start thinking
about optimal prices and
varying prices to figure
out what your demand
is going to be.
What we just showed you
was a simple example using
one dependent variable and
one independent variable.
But of course, regression
can be expanded
to cover multiple
independent variables.
The general idea
is the following.
Again, on the left-hand
side we have Y,
which is your dependent variable.
On the right-hand
side we have the Xs,
which are your
independent variable.
In the bottom of this
page you see an example.
One can speculate that sales
is a function of price,
but price might not
drive everything.
It may be advertising,
it may be promotions.
Regression can handle
as many independent
variables as you want.
The idea there is
exactly the same.
What you're trying to do is
to look at a combination of
variables on the
right-hand side, prices,
advertising promotions,
and look at the
relative impact of
each one to see how much do they
contribute to overall sales.
Now, regression as I mentioned,
is just one example of
making demand predictions.
It's a great tool for
understanding drivers of demand,
making demand predictions,
talking about optimal pricing.
But there are many,
many other examples.
So regression is one way.
You can start thinking
about things like cart.
You can start thinking about
things like neural networks,
all of those predictive
analytic tools
that Peter is going to cover
later on in this course.